And this video will take a look at some of the basics of fiber channel storage.
Look at how your ESX host connects to a fiber channel storage array.
And we'll go through some of the basic terminology of Fiber Channel and how we can use it to create
a VM EF-S data store.
So Fiber Channel is one of the possible array options that we can choose from.
We've got other options like I scuzzy or Fiber Channel over Ethan but just really think of the Fiber
Channel aspect of this as a way to connect our ESX I host to storage and Fiber Channel is a VM FS storage
option and that means we can do things like Buu and ESX I host from a Fiber Channel line or create Raud
device mappings.
So let's talk about some of the pieces that make up our fiber channel storage array and for the moment
we're just going to focus on the network and the storage array itself.
So here we see our fiber channel switch fabric and these are our switches are these are the switches
that connect to the ESX host to the fiber channel storage array.
And of course in this scenario these are fiber channel switches and so we're going to have fiber optic
connectors establishing the networking connection between the fiber channel switch fabric and the storage
array.
And will they connect to the storage array on these storage processors here now much like I scuzzy know
you'll hear these concepts repeated when we talk about scuzzy the storage processor is the brains of
the operation.
That's what actually provides the compute horsepower for the storage array.
And it's also what allows the connectivity and it also includes the connectivity ports for our fiber
optic connectors.
And then within the storage array itself we have our physical disks maybe we have a shelf or multiple
shelves of physical disks.
That's our disk aggregate and the aggregate is all of the capacity the entire capacity of the storage
array.
And that's what we call our aggregate.
And we can take that big aggregate and break it up into smaller chunks called logical unit numbers or
Lunds.
So that's what our Lund's are.
They're essentially just simply a way to take that big chunk of an formatted disk space on across the
entire raid array or across all of these multiple shelves of desks and break it up into smaller pieces.
And we'll break it up into sizes that kind of match up with the size of the data stores that we want
to create.
So our ESX host connects to a fiber channel network using something called a host bus adapter or an
HB You can think of the HBK as essentially like a network port specifically to connect to storage.
So that's how my ESX I host is going to connect up to the fiber channel switch fabric.
Right.
And so what is essentially going to happen here in the background is I'm going to have a Windows virtual
machine or Linux virtual machine doesn't really matter right as that virtual machine generates storage
commands those storage commands are going to be in the format of scuzzy commands.
Right so here comes a scuzzy command out of my virtual machine.
It hits the virtual scuzzy controller on that virtual machine which essentially takes that storage command
and dumps it into the appropriate storage adapter
and the job of the storage adapter is to properly format that commands to flow over a network.
In this case our network is fiber channel network so the network identifiers that we're going to use
for Fiber Channel are called World Wide names or W.W. And that's what's going to govern the address's
scheme within my fiber channel switch fabric.
So the storage adapter receives just basically a regular old scuzzy command it properly formats it forwards
it to one of these physical ports that connect up to the fiber channels switch fabric.
And then my storage command traverses the switch fabric hits a storage processor and is directed towards
the appropriate one.
Right.
So think about it every time your virtual machine wants to write to any of its virtual disks or read
from any of its virtual disks.
This is what is happening right there there's a data store created way over here on this line.
Maybe our data store is right here and within that data store theres a folder and within that folder
there is a VM decay for your virtual machine.
So every storage command that your virtual machine generates flows over this network.
So of course latency is a critical consideration here.
Fiber Channel supports either 8 or 16 gig connections.
And advice first 6.5 you can have and end full 16 gig connectivity to fiber channel storage array
multipath thing is another important consideration.
We want to think about where we want multipath thing for a couple of reasons.
Number one we have to be able to tolerate the failure of a component.
Right so if we lose one of these fiber channel switch fabrics to a failure we need to be able to gracefully
fail over to the surviving fiber channel switch fabric or you know one of my fiber channel ports fails
or if one of my storage processors fail we need multipath.
So that we can tolerate those sorts of failures.
We also want multipath thing for bandwidth purposes as well.
We want to be able to use multiple paths to send storage commands towards our storage array.
So in this case we have a fiber channel host bus adapter or HBK that has two physical ports.
And it's fairly simple multipath thing with fiber channel right.
We install a physical HBO and HBO has two physical ports which we have connected to fiber channel switch
fabrics and we've connected those fiber channel switch fabrics to storage processors and now given this
typology if we lose a component like for example let's say that we lose one of our fiber channel switch
ports fails.
Well this fiber channel switch port is now down but as you can see here I still have one port up with
an active connection to the fiber channel switch fabric.
So my network is still good and I can still pass all of those storage commands and you know same thing
if I lose one of my switches or same thing if I lose one of my storage processors I can lose any physical
component.
And as long as I don't lose more than one of the same physical component I'm not going to have a storage
failure.
Right.
And the ESX host comes with different what are called espies and S-A teepees.
We don't need to get too deep into that but past selection plugins and storage array type plug ins that
do things like path's selection and load balancing.
So it's going to automatically detect these failures with built in SATB and PSP.
Is that a baked right into the ESX II image.